# book-shelver
Library stack browser GUI. Interactable Google Street View for libraries. Early iterations will allow a single user to create a shelf or two of the books they own.

## Why?
Many libraries are moving away from storing all their books in the same space the patrons use. One of the most charming parts of walking through a library is looking for one book, but discovering several closely related books in the same section. This is called serendipitous discovery. When the stacks move out of the library (or we're all stuck at home during a pandemic) the potential for serendipitous discovery goes down. 

We can still discover new books with the "recommended for you" section below the digital book entry, but, that shows like, what? 5 books at a time? Book spines are great because they give you a quick impression of the book while taking up little space. If we didn't have to see the full cover in that standard recommendation space, they could be recommending us like 30-50 books at a time!

But, seeing the books close by isn't enough. The beauty of a library is that the information is arranged in such a way that the farther you travel away from the original book, the more you are moving away from that subject matter. For example, when looking at a math book, the next row over might be physics books, and then 5 rows over might have biology texts. Moving in a library is effectively traversing the tree of knowledge, and that's something that's tough to duplicate in a dumb recommendation box.

## Plans

### Platforms to be Supported:
VR, but not Oculus because, sorry Facebook, I don't like you.

Tablet/smartphones via an app available in the various app stores. 

Desktop & Mobile via a web facing version.

### Potential Issues:
Image compressors really do not like long thin images. Could this be a potential problem? What about using transparent pngs?

Ditto on resizing the scanned images of book spines. Possibly work with the publishers to get a digital representation format that is scalable. Ray tracing??

Shelf height vs book height. Libraries often have an oversized book section for dealing with this problem irl. We could scale down oversized books to force them to fit in digital space, or, we could change the shelf heights automatically to accomodate them.

### Ideas: 
Allow user submitted book spine images to crowdsource the lack of availability.

Pinch to zoom in/out to get a closer look at a section of the shelf.

Tapping/clicking on a book will load the standard book info one would expect from a library webpage, after a short animation of the book being removed from the shelf.

4 shelves per bookcase to fit well on a phone and still be readable

Autogenerated book spines with just the title and author name. Color determined by something unexpected but consistent.

Pull book dimensions from Amazon or another site. Longest by shortest should be the dimensions for the spine.

Allow libraries to specify their preferred layout to match the real life library.

### Things to consider:
How important is realism?

Default dimensions of shelves, bookcases, rows, etc.

### Technologies to use:
Unity? https://learn.unity.com/tutorials

Amazon API https://developer.amazonservices.com/ - book dimensions, referral links

WorldCat API - libraries nearby, other necessary book info

OCLC API http://classify.oclc.org/classify2/api_docs/index.html - LCC/DDC numbers

Goodreads API - get individual users' book lists

### Other Resources:
Explanation of book spine formats - https://danq.me/2019/01/27/iso-6357/
How to make a 3D book cover in CSS - https://scastiel.dev/posts/2020-07-23-animated-3d-book-css/ (spine not included)
